---
layout: post
title:  "Get off your soapbox"
date:   2017-06-27 13:56:23 +0100
---

Soapbox Science is an interactive public outreach activity that aims to
promote science within a wide range of audience. The spotlight is on the
role of women in science in a variety of fields. Brilliant scientists speak
out about their latest discoveries in an accessible way and are available
to discuss and answer questions. The format is the one of the London Hyde
Park’s Speaker’s Corner, where people discuss politics, religion and other
topics standing on wooden boxes.

For the second time in Cardiff, the event was organised by our local community
and took place on Saturday 10th of June between 1- 4pm, in the city centre at
the Alliance sculpture.

The speakers of 2017 covered a vast range of scientific fields such as Chemistry,
Astronomy, Engineering, Medicine, Earth and Ocean Sciences. Inspiring talks
included directing the traffic of killer T cells: getting them to the right
place at the right time by Dr Ann Ager, the untold truth about diamond enemy
by Dr Manuela Pacella and the chemistry behind the formation of our bones
by the PhD candidate Giulia Mancardi. Finally, Dr Susanne Claus, a PhD
graduate of our department who is currently working at the school of Engineering,
showed the magic of non-Newtonian fluids with some samples and live experiments
that completely got children’s attention.  A full list of all the speakers
and their project titles is available here.

The event was a success due to a total of 24 volunteers both males and
females, from PhD students, to Postdocs and researchers at the university
and in industry. The volunteers had a full day schedule with various tasks
throughout the day, including escorting Dylan the Welsh Dragon, collecting
feedback, counting footfall and inviting passer by. We took part in this
event as volunteers and we had a great time interacting with the audience,
meeting talented fellow scientists and promoting our field. The atmosphere
was relaxed and friendly and we had a chance to chat with the organisers
and volunteers during the social meeting that took place after the event.

The outreach was very successful. Audience of different ages, from families
with children, to groups of friends and individuals got involved and listened
to the speakers. There was a continuous flow of people from the beginning
to the very end. It was estimated around 12 thousand people passed by the
arena and the event reached 10 thousand impressions on Cardiff's Soapbox
Science account.

A huge thank you to the organisers Dr Jennifer Pike, Dr Anabel Morte Rodenas,
Helen Obee Reardon and Dr Hayley Wyatt. In conclusion, we became passionate
about the cause and we highly recommend everyone from the department to
attend or participate next year, as we most certainly will.
